
| Category   | Difficulty       | Likes | Dislikes |
| ---------- | ---------------- | ----- | -------- |
| algorithms | #Medium (77.65%) | 1135  | 219      |

**Tags**

[`Unknown`](https://leetcode.com/tag/Unknown?source=vscode "https://leetcode.com/tag/Unknown?source=vscode")  #array #greedy #sorting

**Companies**

`Unknown`

You are given an integer array `nums` of size `n` where `n` is a multiple of 3 and a positive integer `k`.

Divide the array `nums` into `n / 3` arrays of size **3** satisfying the following condition:

- The difference between **any** two elements in one array is **less than or equal** to `k`.

Return a **2D** array containing the arrays. If it is impossible to satisfy the conditions, return an empty array. And if there are multiple answers, return **any** of them.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = [1,3,4,8,7,9,3,5,1], k = 2

**Output:** [[1,1,3],[3,4,5],[7,8,9]]

**Explanation:**

The difference between any two elements in each array is less than or equal to 2.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = [2,4,2,2,5,2], k = 2

**Output:** []

**Explanation:**

Different ways to divide `nums` into 2 arrays of size 3 are:

- [[2,2,2],[2,4,5]] (and its permutations)
- [[2,2,4],[2,2,5]] (and its permutations)

Because there are four 2s there will be an array with the elements 2 and 5 no matter how we divide it. since `5 - 2 = 3 > k`, the condition is not satisfied and so there is no valid division.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** nums = [4,2,9,8,2,12,7,12,10,5,8,5,5,7,9,2,5,11], k = 14

**Output:** [[2,2,12],[4,8,5],[5,9,7],[7,8,5],[5,9,10],[11,12,2]]

**Explanation:**

The difference between any two elements in each array is less than or equal to 14.

**Constraints:**

- `n == nums.length`
- `1 <= n <= 105`
- `n` is a multiple of 3
- `1 <= nums[i] <= 105`
- `1 <= k <= 105`

---

[Submissions](https://leetcode.com/problems/divide-array-into-arrays-with-max-difference/submissions/?source=vscode "https://leetcode.com/problems/divide-array-into-arrays-with-max-difference/submissions/?source=vscode") | [Solution](https://leetcode.com/problems/divide-array-into-arrays-with-max-difference/solutions/?source=vscode "https://leetcode.com/problems/divide-array-into-arrays-with-max-difference/solutions/?source=vscode")

### Approach: Sort + Greedy

#### Intuition

The task requires us to group the numbers in the nums array such that the difference between the minimum and maximum values in each group is no more than k, and the total number of groups is minimized.

We can consider a greedy approach here: for each group, we include as many numbers as possible. Since the order of elements does not affect the grouping, we can sort the array first. Then, we traverse the array nums and start a new group whenever necessary. We record the minimum value rec of the current group. As we iterate, if the current element nums[i] satisfies nums[i]−rec>k, it means a new group must be started.

The correctness of this greedy strategy can be explained as follows:

1. Suppose the minimum value of a group is start. Then, the valid range for that group is [start,start+k]. Since we add all elements within this range to the current group, removing any of them wouldn't reduce the number of groups—it would either stay the same or increase. Thus, including all such elements in a group ensures we use the fewest groups possible.
2. According to our strategy, we start a new group only when an element exceeds start+k. This guarantees that no element is counted in more than one group. If there were overlap between two groups, the overlapping elements could be moved to the first group, which would increase the second group's minimum value and its upper bound, possibly allowing more elements to be grouped together. This either reduces or maintains the number of groups, proving the greedy method does not produce a worse result.

```python
class Solution:
    def partitionArray(self, nums: list[int], k: int) -> int:
        nums.sort()
        ans = 1
        rec = nums[0]
        for num in nums:
            if num - rec > k:
                ans += 1
                rec = num
        return ans
```

