| Category   | Difficulty       | Likes | Dislikes |
| ---------- | ---------------- | ----- | -------- |
| algorithms | #Medium (44.64%) | 587   | 46       |

**Tags**

[`Unknown`](https://leetcode.com/tag/Unknown?source=vscode "https://leetcode.com/tag/Unknown?source=vscode") #hash-table #string #greedy #sorting #counting 

**Companies**

`Unknown`

You are given a string `word` and an integer `k`.

We consider `word` to be **k-special** if `|freq(word[i]) - freq(word[j])| <= k` for all indices `i` and `j` in the string.

Here, `freq(x)` denotes the frequency of the character `x` in `word`, and `|y|` denotes the absolute value of `y`.

Return _the **minimum** number of characters you need to delete to make_ `word` **_k-special_**.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** word = "aabcaba", k = 0

**Output:** 3

**Explanation:** We can make `word` `0`-special by deleting `2` occurrences of `"a"` and `1` occurrence of `"c"`. Therefore, `word` becomes equal to `"baba"` where `freq('a') == freq('b') == 2`.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** word = "dabdcbdcdcd", k = 2

**Output:** 2

**Explanation:** We can make `word` `2`-special by deleting `1` occurrence of `"a"` and `1` occurrence of `"d"`. Therefore, `word` becomes equal to "bdcbdcdcd" where `freq('b') == 2`, `freq('c') == 3`, and `freq('d') == 4`.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** word = "aaabaaa", k = 2

**Output:** 1

**Explanation:** We can make `word` `2`-special by deleting `1` occurrence of `"b"`. Therefore, `word` becomes equal to `"aaaaaa"` where each letter's frequency is now uniformly `6`.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= word.length <= 105`
- `0 <= k <= 105`
- `word` consists only of lowercase English letters.

---

[Submissions](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-deletions-to-make-string-k-special/submissions/?source=vscode "https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-deletions-to-make-string-k-special/submissions/?source=vscode") | [Solution](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-deletions-to-make-string-k-special/solutions/?source=vscode "https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-deletions-to-make-string-k-special/solutions/?source=vscode")


### Approach: Hash Table + Enumeration

#### Intuition

The task requires us to delete certain characters from the given string so that the difference in the frequency of any two types of characters does not exceed k.

To do this, we first use a hash table to count the number of occurrences of each character, where cnt[c] represents the number of times the character c appears. Since there are only 26 character types, we can enumerate one of them as the "character with the lowest frequency after the deletion operation" and set it as c. Then, all characters with frequencies less than cnt[c] will be entirely deleted, and all characters with frequencies greater than cnt[c]+k will be reduced to exactly cnt[c]+k instances.

Among all such enumeration schemes, we select the one that results in the smallest total number of deletions.

```python
class Solution:
    def minimumDeletions(self, word: str, k: int) -> int:
        # defaultdict is a dictionary that will not raise an error if the key is not found
        count = defaultdict(int)
        for char in word:
            count[char] += 1
        res = len(word)
        for a in count.values():
            deleted=0
            for b in count.values():
                if a > b:
                    deleted += b
                elif b > a + k:
                    deleted += b-(a + k)
            res = min(res, deleted)
        return res```

#### Complexity analysis

Let n be the length of the string word, and let C be the size of the character set, which is 26 in this case.

- Time complexity: O(n).
    
    We enumerate each character and calculate the number of deleted characters.
    
- Space complexity: O(1).
    
    The space complexity when using a hash table is O(C).